Pricing Service

The pricing service schema in the database includes the following tables: bandit_arms, lot_pricing_config, and pricing_events. The bandit_arms table stores bandit arm info (e.g. context and parameters). The lot-pricing_config stores the base price for each lot, and pricing_events stores booking events by users (which are used to update bandit parameters). The service then uses SQLAlchemy as an ORM. The database is initiated in the pricing service container, and the database connection code and ORM code are in database.py and models.py respectively.

The file bandit.py stores the code to actually come up with a price, given a booking request. This code creates a context key based on the day, time and lot of the request, uses that key to retrieve the corresponding bandit parameters for that context from the database, and uses those bandit parameters to select a multiplier. It then applies that multiplier to the lot’s base price and uses that as the final price. The sampling from the bandit parameters is done using numpy’s beta sampling, which is designed to work with alpha and beta parameters such as those used in this bandit algorithm.

The pricing.proto defines the exposed gRPC messages for the pricing service. These are: GetPrice (called by the FastAPI) and RecordBookingOutcomeRequest (called by FastAPI or InventoryService, depending on whether the user declined or accepted the booking). These two proto methods: provide a price, using the bandit sampling, for a given parking lot, day and time; and records whether the user accepted that booking, to update the bandit parameters, respectively. The other files in the pricing service are as follows:
database.py: connects to the postgres database
models.py: SQLAlchemy ORM models for the pricing schema
service.py: defines the main pricing logic functions, called by the gRPC handlers from server.py 


Inventory Service

The inventory service is structured similarly to the pricing service; however, it contains more proto methods, because it deals with not only the parking inventory, but also the users and user accounts. Also like the pricing service, it has its own PostGres database with the following tables: User (to store basic user information and user_id), ParkingLot (to store total spots, address, lot_id), ParkingSpot (spot_id, FK lot_id, status) and Reservations (which link a parking spot and a user, with a specific time and price). The primary keys from each table are especially important, because they are passed back and forth between the frontend and backend to facilitate different actions, such as searching for availability in a given lot, or making a reservation.

The inventory service has eight gRPC methods: GetLotOccupancy takes in a lot ID and returns total, occupied and available spots for that lot. This is used when a user searches for availability. ListSpots lists all spots, along with their status, for a given lot. This was implemented early in the project and is not used in the final design. ReserveSpot takes in a lot, time, and price (supplied by the Pricing Service) and assigns and books a spot for a user in that lot. This is used when a user makes a booking. ListReservations provides a list of parking reservations for a given user, and is used to display these to the user in the UI. ListParkingLots provides a list of parking lots with their names and addresses, and is used by the UI to show the available lots to the user, and to retrieve the lot_id’s to be used in future requests to the backend. CreateUser allows users to create an account, and VerifyUser allows a user to log in. Finally, CancelReservation allows users to cancel an existing reservation, up to one hour before the reservation start time.

Most of these methods require fairly straightforward database look-ups and returns from the inventory database. but some of the methods require more complex logic. In particular, ReserveSpot involves a gRPC call to pricing service’s RecordBookingOutcome method. This is so that the pricing service can confirm that the price sent from the frontend, stored when the original search query was made, is in fact the correct price (because pricing is pseudo-random, according to the bandit ML technique).

The inventory service has a similar file structure to the pricing service: SQLAlchemy ORM is in models.py, the main logical and database functions are defined in service.py and are called by the gRPC handlers in server.py. 

FastAPI

The FastAPI component is the link between the mobile application and the backend services. It provides a number of http API endpoints that can be reached by the mobile application. These endpoints then trigger gRPC calls to the backend services. In between, the FastAPI parses the information and formats it. It is a stateless web server built with Python’s fastapi library.

All of the api endpoints are defined in api.py. Most of these endpoints have expected inputs and outputs that are defined in the Pydantic data validation file schema.py, which helps ensure accuracy and predictability for the client and the api server itself. There are API endpoints that allow a user to: create a new account, login, search for availability within a parking lot and time, book a spot, and view/cancel reservations. All of these actions trigger a corresponding gRPC call to inventory service, and possibly to pricing service as well. In order to do that, the inventory and pricing service generated gRPC code is copied into the FastAPI folder, which is part of what allows the FastAPI to access these methods while running in its own container.
